#Data Mining

Data mining is the process of analysing data to find useful patterns and correlations. 
This data can then be used to maximize productivity/revenue, cut costs or a plethora of
other applications.

## Where it could be used in the Hospital

Medical professionals spend lots of time filling out paperwork, consuming valuable time
that could be spent working or resting. To combat this, the hospital could employ data
mining techniques to create pre-emptive digital paperwork. This would work by using all
the previously filled out paperwork and information to guess what the paperwork should look
like for a given patient. For example, personal details could be taken straight from the
booking, and if the correct doctor/nurse logs a form within the designated window that the
patient should have been meeting them, then those details are automatically filled in, and
the doctor/nurse must only check they are correct. As the professional is performing a diagnosis
and logging symptons, the data mining tool may be able to pre-emptively calculate more specific
details, along with providing suggestions from the results of other patients who had the
same/similar symptons.

## Data Mining Lifecycle

### Problem Definition

Medical professionals spend too much time filling out paperwork. A data mining solution
may reduce this time drastically.

### Data Gathering and Preparation

If the past data is already stored in a database of some sort, then no preparation would be 
needed, if not, then at least some of the paper copies of the data would need to be entered
digitially.

### Model Building and Evaluation

## Diabetes.arff

The small sample of data available would be enough to make a good estimate of whether the
patient has diabetes or not, using the attributes that have already been collected.
Using that data, if a user were to enter the same details, a data-mining algorithm could be used
to attempt to calculate if that person has diabetes by matching there results with those of
the results of positive diabetes tests. 
